detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a crime mystery film called
the whole truth spoilers ahead watch out
and take care
defense attorney richard ramsey recalls
the day of his client mike lasseter's
trial where the 17 year old boy was
accused of killing his father
boone lasseter the court officer smiled
at him and richard remembers thinking
that he was in a world of trouble
aside from leaving his handprint on the
murder weapon mike himself confessed to
his father's murder
richard mentions that half of his
previous cases had evidence that was
just as bad as mike's
but he still managed to get them a lower
sentence by pleading them out
unfortunately richard's having a tough
time dealing with mike's case because he
has known the kid all his life
mike was supposed to go to college maybe
even law school
and richard doubted that his mother
could survive him going to jail
however since richard knew mike's father
and everything going on in the lasseter
household
he is still confident that mike has a
defense if he would just talk to him
during the trial mike's mother loretta
watches from the back as the jury enters
the courtroom
judge robichaud reminds the jury that
the defendant is still a minor but due
to the seriousness of his case
mike's case has been transferred to them
the judicial district court of the state
of louisiana
in there mike will be tried as an adult
for first-degree murder
leblanc the prosecutor makes his opening
statement by saying that this is a
simple case of patricide
he says that mike is a senior at newman
a good student and the debate team
captain
leblanc then announces that mike killed
his father not by accident nor
self-defense but in anger
it was a premeditated murder with
malicious intent and that he'll prove it
without a reasonable doubt
the prosecutor adds that while boon
lasseter wasn't a good father to mike
he wasn't the worst either concluding
his statement
leblanc asked the jury to return a
guilty verdict to the murder of first
degree
meanwhile richard whispers to mike that
he has to waive his opening statement
since mike isn't talking
with no other choice richard tells the
court that he is reserving his right to
an opening statement until after the
prosecution presents its case
the judge allows it then asks the
prosecution to present its first witness
leblanc calls on a flight attendant for
a private airline named angela morley
when asked if she's always on boone's
flights she replies that she was on most
of them since boone would always request
her
leblanc asks when boone last flew with
her and angela says that it was on the
last week of january
to la and back with mike then round trip
to dallas
she says the purpose of their dallas
trip was business while their la trip
was to take my to look for colleges like
ucla and stanford
angela adds that they were supposed to
go to oregon but the father and son had
decided to come home instead
in a flashback boon tells his son that
stanford is one of the top schools in
the country
since mike has already gotten in early
he suggests that they don't have to go
to read anymore
when it's time for richard to
cross-examine angela he tells her that
he's never been on a private plane
before
so he asks if clients can bring whoever
they want if boone would do that
to which she replies yes richard asks
angela if boone was a good client
and angelo affirms this saying that
boone was professional but fun and
pleasant to be around
finally richard asks the witness if she
ever left the names of the women boone
had brought on the plane off the
manifest
leblanc objects to richard's question
and the judge tells the two lawyers to
come forward
he asks richard if he has evidence for
the court richard replies no
and while the judge is talking to them
angela recalls one instance when boone
had brought women on the plane
she finally answers richard's question
stating that it would be against the law
to emit passengers from the manifest and
firmly denies ever doing that
boone's driver takes the stand next and
leblanc asks him if he picked up boone
and mike at the lakefront airport
he says he did at around four o'clock
the driver states that he drove boone
again straight to the airport the
following morning at seven o'clock
leblanc asks if there's anything unusual
that day but the driver says no even
though a flashback reveals that they
picked up a woman along the way
after that richard stands and questions
the driver if he has ever picked up
women for boone on the way to the
airport
and leblanc immediately objects richard
withdraws his statement and the judge
tells him to sit down
richard does so then tells mike that's
what losing looks like and that it's the
best he could do until mike starts
talking to him
after their session in court richard
recalls how boon used to sleep with
anyone
it's not related to the case but richard
thinks it could make him look bad
he also believes that loretta knows
about it but doesn't care as long as it
helps her son
on his way out of the court richard is
greeted by janelle brady
but richard tells her that she's late
before completely ignoring her
richard talks to his colleague jack
legrand about one of the jury members
before introducing janelle as walter
brady's daughter
richard asked walter to sit second chair
with him but since walter couldn't he
sent chanel instead
richard continues to talk about the jury
clearly disappointed about janelle's
tardiness
jack leaves and the two make their way
to the attorney's conference room
inside richard interviews janelle and
asks her to tell him more about herself
to test chanel he questions her about
which witness she believes lied on the
stand that morning
janelle thinks that angela lied about
the passenger manifest because she
looked at her hands after answering
richard's question
with this janelle deduces that boone
must have taken different women on his
flights
richard agrees adding that angela didn't
want to lose her next job by admitting
as much
he asks who else lied and janelle says
that the limo driver went out of his way
to say he drove straight to the airport
so they must have stopped to pick up a
woman finally richard asked chanel what
she thinks he lied about in court
smiling janelle replies that richard has
lied about not being on a private plane
before
satisfied with janelle's answers richard
tells her that she has probably heard
that mike isn't speaking to anyone
including him that means that richard is
defending mike without knowing all the
facts and that he's only learning
everything as they go
in their next session richard introduces
janelle to court
and the judge is surprised to learn that
she's related to walter brady
next on the stand is the officer who
responded to the lasseter's domestic
violence call with a possibility of
homicide
she testifies that she wasn't sure
whether to enter their residence or wait
for backup
but since she was told that it was
already under control she went in
in a flashback loretta greets the
officer then leads her to the master's
bedroom
where mike is sitting beside his
father's dead body on the floor
leblanc asked the officer what she did
upon seeing boone and the officer
replies that she made sure to confirm
boone's death by checking his pulse
upon confirmation richard arrived at the
lasseter residence
when loretta leaves the room mike says
that he should have done that a long
time ago
to clarify leblanc asks the officer to
repeat what exactly mike said
and the officer replies i should have
done this a long time ago
richard objects saying that what the
officer just said is different from her
previous sworn statement
saying should have done this a long time
ago and not i should have
richard argues that without the correct
pronoun mike could have meant
someone should have done this a long
time ago suggesting that someone else
did it
leblanc asked the officer to clarify her
statement and the officer insists that
she's sure that mike said
i should have done this a long time ago
in another flashback
richard enters the master's bedroom with
loretta then looks at mike and boone's
body in disbelief
back in the courtroom the officer is
asked about how long it took for the
other officers to arrive
to which she responds with only a couple
of minutes in another recollection
the officer is telling richard that she
needs mike to step away from the body
loretta talks to a disoriented mike and
tells him that they need to leave so the
police could do their work
mike goes but loretta and richard remain
there on the officer's orders
since richard has no questions for the
responding officer the judge declares
recess
and richard tells mike that they will
lose unless mike starts talking to him
as mike is being taken away janelle asks
richard why mike isn't talking to him
to which he replies that mike never said
why during recess
richard introduces janelle to loretta
feeling bad
loretta asks if she can see her son so
he tells her where she can find mike
before going their separate ways richard
gives janelle the key card to a room at
the marina hotel
where he keeps all the evidence and
reports they need for the case
the next witness is one of the lassiters
neighbors for 15 years arthur weston
he testifies that he liked boone and
that his son was mike's classmate at
newman
he says mike and boone were very close
and that loretta was sort of the odd
woman out
he adds that mike wanted to be a lawyer
like his father and that when mike was
12 years old he wanted to go to a
forensic camp
while arthur is testifying mike sits in
his chair while drawing something on a
piece of paper
arthur continues to recount that one day
someone had poisoned their neighbor's
cat and mike was able to find out who
the culprit is
leblanc asks if the bond between the
father and son continued until boone's
death
and arthur says that something must have
happened eight months ago before boone
died
in the next flashback there's a party at
the lassiter residence with arthur and
richard both in attendance
moon gets drunk and starts humiliating
loretta in front of the guests
nobody did anything until mike stepped
in telling his father to stop
however arthur claims that he spoke up
and tried to stop boone
what really happened was that richard
spoke with boone to calm him down
he claimed to be fine but as soon as
richard left boone grabbed his son and
spoke to him
arthur says he isn't sure what mike and
boone were talking about but he saw the
effect it had on mike
after talking to his son boone spoke to
arthur telling him that it's none of his
business
he even threatened to kill him if arthur
looked at him that way again
once again richard has no questions for
the witness and mike continues with his
drawing
the trial continues and detective graves
is called to the stand
he reports that in cases involving
married couples the spouse is always the
first suspect
the responding officer told him about
what mike said when he arrived at the
scene
he says that he took a look at the knife
as it stuck out of boone's chest
and the size of the palm print he found
and it changed his focus
detective graves tells leblanc that they
took mike and loretta to the station for
questioning
where the two kept quiet when it's
richard's turn he asks detective graves
why he didn't pursue any suspects other
than mike
and the detective replies that he
believes mike did it as the trial goes
on
more evidence is presented to the court
including boone's bloody shirt and
pictures from the crime scene
the crime technician who examined
boone's body explains the cause of death
and that he died in under a minute
he also adds that he believes boon knew
his assailant and was taken
by surprise since he had no scratches
and bruises as pointed out by richard
richard then asks him if there was any
hair found on the victim and the crime
technician says that the hair strands
found were of loretta
mike and all the other people who worked
at the scene postmortem
contrary to his statement a flashback
shows him talking to another crime
technician about loretta
she claimed to be in the shower washing
her hair at the time of the murder
they then talked about how they found a
couple of hair strands in the sink and
only one strand in the shower
to make things clear richard asks the
witness if there is nothing at all that
might point to a suspect other than mike
and the witness says yes arthur's son
alexander takes the stand next
and before he started testifying another
flashback shows him watching loretta
through
a window as she takes a shower then as
he makes a statement
he recalls seeing boone sexually assault
his wife in their home
when richard asks if he saw boone
behaving brutally toward loretta he lies
saying that he didn't it's loretta's
turn to take the stand and she describes
the day of the murder
mike was supposed to be at soccer
practice and she was working out in
their gym from three to four in the
afternoon
loretta says she was expecting boone to
come home but she wasn't sure when he
will arrive since he always texted her
before landing
loretta adds that she didn't hear him
coming into the house because she was
getting in the shower
when she came out of the shower she saw
mike in the doorway
asking her if his father was dead and
she confirmed it after that she says
that mike's next words were
i did it richard questions loretta next
and she tells everyone how she has
endured physical and emotional abuse
from her husband with their son as a
witness to everything
she also adds that boone heard her the
day he died richard presents reports and
photographs of loretta's injuries taken
a day after her husband's death after
receiving a note
richard visits mike and tells him that
he's not taking the stand
despite richard's protests mike still
refuses to talk to him
after learning about it loretta
confronts richard but he tells her that
he can't keep mike from testifying since
it's his constitutional right
when it's mike's turn at the stand he
tells everyone how his father would
verbally abuse his mother
while he didn't witness any physical
abuse he definitely heard some of it
from the sound of a hand hitting the
flesh to loretta's loud cries
when asked if he went home early on the
day of the murder because soccer
practice was canceled
mike says yes and adds that he heard
loretta and boone in the bedroom
richard is about to ask him another
question but mike cuts him off
saying that he killed his father so he
wouldn't be able to force himself on him
anymore
especially after boone touched him again
during the trip
the room gets quiet as mike tells his
story and he continues to say that it
all started when he was 12 years old
richard asks him where the flight
attendant was during the incident and
mike says he doesn't know before
confessing that he hasn't told anyone
about it out of shame
after richard leblanc asked mike what
boon was doing when he went to his
bedroom on the day of the murder
mike says boone was about to unpack and
when leblanc asks if boone had
threatened him
mike says his father told him to be
ready since they'll be doing it again
before mike went off to college
after the session richard learns that
leblanc will recall angela morley
angela takes the stand one more time but
instead of richard
janelle is the one cross-examining her
before janelle questions angela
mike whispers to ask angela about
ginsburg under pressure from janelle's
questioning
it is revealed that angela is in a
personal relationship with a co-pilot
she's been spending some time in the
cockpit long enough that she might have
missed something unusual happening
between boone and mike
later on chanel talks to loretta and
suspects that mike must be protecting
her
which is confirmed in a flashback that
shows loretta saying boone's death was
her mistake while mike tries to take the
blame
janelle confronts richard and after
realizing that richard knows that
everything that mike said was a lie
and that he was just protecting his
mother she gets mad and leaves
though there isn't enough evidence to
support boone's abuse mike gets
acquitted
as the verdict is being read mike
recalls the day of the murder
how he touched his father's body and
blood making sure to leave his handprint
on the knife
after the trial mike asks richard to
meet him and that's when he shows
richard his drawing
mike says it's richard's watch left on
the rug he reveals that he knows richard
was the one who killed his father
another flashback shows mike seeing
loretta picking up the watch
richard denies it and even though mike
threatens to tell the d.a everything
richard remains in denial after his
confrontation with mike
richard recalls what really happened on
the day of the murder when he killed
boone
he and loretta are having an affair and
after boone learned about it
richard advised him to divorce her
however boone has hinted that he will
kill loretta and
richard remembers loretta's story about
how boone threatened to kill her
in this flashback loretta is shown to
repeatedly hit herself with a heavy
object to support her claims of physical
abuse
it also shows richard himself stabbing
boone he instructs her to touch the
knife and just as she's about to
mike returns home subscribe to watch
more videos like this
turn on notifications and leave a like
it really helps the channel out
thank you for watching